We had a two-page website. We didn't
have a blog when I started.
>> This week, I sat down with Erin May.
She's the CMO at User Interviews. She's
been there eight years. She joined as
the first marketer when they had a
two-page website and zero recurring
revenue.
>> I joined pre-recurring revenue. So, we
were pre-recurring revenue.
>> Today, she's helped grow the company to
over 20 million in ARR. What I love
about this conversation with Erin is
that she's not talking about theory.
She's talking about what she actually
did in order over the eight years at
user interviews.
>> When I started very early, I was the
eighth hire, first marketer, so super
super early.
>> She talks about how she picked one niche
audience and went allin, how she stacked
channels one at a time instead of trying
to do everything at once, and how she
built a marketing operating system
around these things called bangers,
which I love. Yep, bangers.
>> Some people would call them a tent pole.
I like bangers. Bangers are banging.
They're quarterly 10pole moments that
get the entire company involved from
content to sales follow-up. And she
actually incentivized employees to post
about these with cash. Cold hard cash.
We also got into podcasting, her
expectations for AI with her team, and
why she thinks the brand versus demand
debate is stupid. Enjoy my conversation
with Aaron May.
>> 2.
>> Okay, my guest is Aaron May. And uh
what's what's great is Aaron just asked
making sure that we can curse on this
podcast which is
>> we'll start we'll start modest.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um it's really yeah it's
really interesting that to some people I
found it's a great icebreaker. Um really
really just changes changes the tone.
But I'm excited to have you on. So
you're CMO at uh user interviews. Can
you tell me about user what does user
interviews do?
>> That's right. User interviews now by
user testing. So it's an exciting time
here. What user interviews does is if
you need participants for literally any
kind of research, we've got them. So I
like to say any kind of safe and legal
research, we will support it. So that's
in person, moderated, unmodderated,
doesn't matter. Uh we'll find your
participants.
>> Okay. And you said uh sorry, you said
now at user user
>> testing user test
>> user test. There's so many users. Uh so
so so company was acquired earlier this
year last year. Just about two months
ago. Yeah.
>> Okay. Cool. And um your role, your CMO,
what does that mean?
>> That means I lead our marketing
function. And because user interviews is
a marketplace, that's on the researcher
and the demand side. So mostly what I do
is B2B marketing, but I get a little bit
of consumer marketing in the mix too
with our six million participants. And
you've been there for what, the last
eight years?
>> Eight years. Yeah.
>> And did you join pre-revenue?
>> I joined pre-recurring revenue. So we
were
>> pre-recurring revenue. I mean that's
basically that's the only revenue people
care about, right?
>> That's right. So yes. Yes, I did.
>> And were you CMO when you joined or like
did you was this part of your career
career story? You've been there for
eight years?
>> Yes. I was the head of marketing
actually. I think I was the VP of
content and life cycle. Uh but that
quickly escalated and head of marketing
and then uh VP and then I took on the
growth function which we can talk about
a few few promotions along the way over
the eight years but always the head of
marketing.
>> Okay, cool. So I I get a bunch of I get
a bunch of like notes and questions in
here. Um we've been learning that the
thing that people like the most about
this podcast lately is more about the
like what did you do? How did you do it?
How did it work? And it's it's even okay
if it wasn't, you know, in the last week
or so. I think that what we're learning
is so many of the things that people are
doing in marketing are are timeless. And
um it seemed like one of the one of the
big things that was transformational for
you all was back in the day really
niching down on kind of one core use
case and one core persona. And you have
some strong opinions about um brand and
audience building and finding a niche.
And I'd love to just kind of um unpack
that a little bit.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So when I started very
early, I was the eighth hire, first
marketer, so super super early. Uh we
had a couple hunches of some marketing
things we should do. So for example, we
were uh transactional. Let's send some
emails to folks who have used the
product uh but not used it again and get
them back. So we had a couple things we
knew we needed to do, but really we were
starting very very early. We had early
product market fit, right? We had people
who were using the product, getting good
value, saying good things about it, but
how are we going to scale this thing,
right? So, what we did was we took a
look at who is using this and getting
value now. And we really had a couple of
different personas. Uh we had
researchers and then we had what we call
powder, which is people who do research
but are not researchers. Got it.
>> It's like an acronym.
>> It's an acronym. Love that. People who
do research. people who do research but
are not researchers and that really
breaks down to your product folks,
designers, UXers as well as founders,
right? Founders who are doing kind of
early stage uh research to validate, you
know, their companies and ideas. Uh and
so our hypothesis was these researchers
are going to end up being our best
customers, you know, for obvious
reasons. They're doing the most
research. They're doing it on a
recurring basis. Not only are they doing
research, but they are doing a lot of
research recruiting. So that's the going
hypothesis. And so uh what we decided to
take a look at was you know how big can
we make this thing with this research
audience. Uh so we did some you know
back of the envelope math and we thought
we could we could get going with that.
We knew they were getting the strongest
experience from the product. And then
from a goto market perspective we looked
at who is serving this audience and how
are they being served and what I found
was a big gap which was great. And what
do you do with that gap? You write write
some write some blog post.
>> You write some blog posts. Well,
actually, that's funny you mentioned
that, Dave. So, going just way back, you
know, I've started early before with a
relatively, you know, uh, open field,
but we had a two-page website. We didn't
have a blog when I started. So, me and
my head of product, we actually hopped
into Web Flow and built a blog in the,
you know, my second day on the job to
get things going because we needed to
announce a product integration. But to
answer your question, no, we didn't just
create a bunch of blog posts. Uh we took
a a really uh structured uh strategic
approach to it. So um I've done content
for quite a number of years. And uh this
if we go back way back eight years ago,
uh SEO is still a really thriving
channel eight years ago. Um, so one of
the things we did was we said, how could
we build out an authoritative library of
research content to serve this audience
distributed primarily through SEO? So
that was an early part of the plan.
>> Well, take me into the the SEO approach
cuz like I've been in the early stages
of a startup and sometimes you have a
good idea and you write an article, but
I've never made any real SEO progress
that way. Did you have a sense of the
keywords that you were trying to target
and you you kind of went after them over
time? Like I I know today part of your
story is like built, you know, going
from this two-page website to content
and having this really strong point of
view on your your customer and your
industry being the the cornerstone of
your marketing machine. How did you turn
that into content that actually drove
real SEO growth? Can you kind of unpack
your SEO strategy?
>> Yeah, of course. So, in the case of the
field guide, so we have we call it the
UX research field guide. So, we got some
SEO right there in the name of the
thing, right? Uh, we build out the IIA,
we build out the taxonomy. What are we
going to cover here that hasn't been
covered in the structured way, right?
And then we match that with the keywords
that have those gaps and build out the
entire plan for it. But a cool thing
about the way we did that was I'm a big
fan of dog fooding our product. I've
done a bunch of research. I've learned a
bunch of research methods along the way.
So we actually built out you know the
structure of what is the content that's
going to be in this thing right and then
I validated that taxonomy with our
researchers through research. So we said
you know we did an open card sort and
does the structure make sense what are
the gaps so really lightweight fast
research but validating that this
actually matched the mental model of our
audience before we went whole hog down
you know a big SEO path.
>> Okay. What else?
>> What else? I'm a big, this is now I
think quite trendy or maybe even settled
science, but I'm a big ungated content
person. And so from my previous life as
a marketer, um I had this kind of theory
that people will give you their email if
you give them a compelling reason to do
it, but you don't have to coers them to
do it, right? Um and so the idea was
let's build this all out. let's package
it and deliver it as an ecourse
experience so you can kind of choose
your own adventure and really you know
start from I don't know anything about
research methods or I don't know
anything about insights and really have
a structured learning experience around
that we'll deliver it as an email if you
want it and then that will be more than
just a whole bunch of blog posts you
know to your earlier point but the way
we did that was we said do you want this
as an email you don't have to you can
get the whole thing for free right here
on the web
>> yeah and I think the I think the thing
with like the thing that wi with with
the content approach I think that
intuitively it makes sense like I just
want to make my I want to create good
stuff that's relevant for my potential
customers and I want to distribute that
everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> But the problem is as a marketer if
you're inside of a company how do I know
that the right people are seeing that?
And so it's always been like, well, I
want to know. So like I want to know,
oh, you want this article, Aaron, put
your email in. So then I can go back and
show my company, look, Aaron, you know,
Aaron. May at use this this legit CMO.
>> Yeah, look at our
>> Yeah, this legit CMO got our content.
>> Um, so I always kind of go have gone
back and forth with that. But inside of
the inside of a company, how do you
think about the measurement of of
content? Because I think really that
that's like the root cause of the the
gated content thing. It's like how do we
prove the effectiveness of our content
if we're not
if we don't exactly know who's reading
it?
>> Yeah. Well, and part of the bet there
too is we could have our cake or eat it
too. We're not anti- capturing emails.
I'm anti-coercion, right? So, and so the
idea was, you know, we're going to pop
up a box, give people, you know, you can
push the button, we're not going to
force it at you. And we had a 13%
conversion rate on this thing. So, we
got our emails. We just didn't make
anyone give them to us. And I think that
comes from having a really compelling
experience and a really compelling
offer.
>> How how did you measure just while we're
talking about how did you how did you
measure how did you tell a story about
the meas measuring content?
>> Um
>> yeah. So
>> because at the same time like I think
about this a lot when it comes up in in
these conversations is even if that
piece of content was really helpful the
way people buy it's very rare that I'm
gonna read an article and then
immediately buy the thing. Mhm.
>> And so I'm always interested in like how
do you tell intuitively we we know that
content works. You got to get people to
know, like, and trust you, share your
stuff, but how do you tell the story of,
hey, this is what it looks like. This is
how it takes. How how have you how would
how did Aaron May measure content?
>> Yeah, for sure. So we'll talk about some
of these boxes, right? So what topics
are you covering and the channels you're
distributing and the format you're
putting the content in, right? But in
the early days, there were a couple of
advantages that that made this work and
made this measurable. One was we weren't
doing any other marketing, so we were
going to know quickly if it was working
or not. The second is we have a
relatively short sales cycle at user
interviews. So, we don't have to wait
for months and years to know if that top
of funnel is working. We're going to
know pretty quickly and we're going to
be able to nurture folks to, you know,
self-s serve or talk to sales pretty
quickly as well. So I think it, you
know, it depends on how your funnel
works and how you're going to obviously
measure success and that has evolved
over the years, but in the early days
we're looking for are people coming to
our website? Are we seeing them raise
their hand to talk to sales or sign up,
you know, to use the product? And they
were
>> okay. Do you ever what would change
today if you were doing this today?
>> Yeah.
>> How would your approach to content be
any different? I would not make a big
SEO play as my first play today. I would
obviously be looking at AEO instead of
SEO. We're calling it XO here because,
you know, there is a lot of overlap
between the two things. Um, but I think
the first principles of how we started
this would would apply, right? So again,
the first thing we looked at is who's
the audience we're really trying to
reach? What's that minimum viable
audience? In our case, it was
researchers.
then I'm going to do some lightweight
research to understand that audience and
that's what I did. So I did a whole
bunch of research in like a week and it
was a combination of dog fooding our
product and finding researchers to talk
to and literally like talking to them
like this on Zoom calls. Um and then it
was doing internal stakeholder
interviews and then it was doing some
desk research and you know finding out
where do these people hang out, what are
they complaining about and these sorts
of basic things. So, I would definitely
start with that if I were, you know, to
do it again. And then I would find those
gaps. Where are they being underserved?
You know, they're hanging out in this
channel. Let's say it's YouTube, right?
Um, what is there on YouTube for them?
Is this crowded? Is there open space?
That's kind of where I'm starting,
right? Is just
>> I love I love the point about the gaps.
And I think that's what's really fun
about the job of marketing that I think
gets missed in the nuance of like, you
know, definitive takes on like LinkedIn
about which channel is working or not.
It's like every company I see such a
good eye roll. Every every company it's
like every company is different, right?
They have different funding. They're at
a different stage. They're a different
size. They everyone says like, "Oh,
attract attract a players." It's like,
"Well, actually, we can't because we
have no budget and no one knows who we
are and so we just kind of get a couple
interns." or like in your case, let's
look at the competitive landscape. I
remember um at one of the companies that
I worked at, it was like, yeah, so
obvious podcasting. Wow, you're a
genius, man. It was like, well, nobody
in our niche is doing a podcast. And so,
I think we have an opportunity here. And
it turned out that worked really well.
And so, I think that's what's fun is
kind of like running that analysis of
like, what are the opportunities?
Because every everything is mark
everything in marketing has been proven
to work at some point in time. It's
like, but which guard rails do you have
and which plays are you going to run?
>> Yeah. Exactly. And then that's what's
been fun about being in this role for
eight years is I've seen it all and I've
seen it all change, right? But that
framework that you know the basic idea
of find out where your audience is,
understand deeply what they care about
and then go find those gaps and reach
them, that's never going to change,
right? The particulars will change, but
that framework won't change. Seems like
one thing that you did really well was
whether it was the audience that you
went after or one particular channel,
you you have this kind of playbook of
stacking channels over time as opposed
to being like we're going to do all
these things. Can you explain that a
little bit?
>> Yeah, for sure. I'm a big believer in,
you know, the power law of distribution
and if you can get 90% of your pipeline
from two channels, that makes things a
lot simpler. on the other side of you
know the equation you want to be
somewhat diversified right I've seen
experiences where you are very invested
in SEO Google changes their algorithm
and now you have a big problem right so
it's finding that balance of where can
you really dominate but also having a
portfolio so the way we approached that
was through stacking these channel
content medium combinations one at a
time and then as we stacked them over
the years we sort of throttled and
dialed up and down where we're placing
our bets based on what's working well
for us and based on how those channels
and audiences are changing over time.
>> How did you think about planning for the
next phase of growth because a lot of
times you have like you said these one
or two core channels but then the the
growth plan for the company continues to
grow. You can't just like I have this
argument with Dan, my business partner,
all the time like we can't just it
doesn't work like you you can't just
like do more podcast because the podcast
is growing. You can't just like do more
episodes and it works. You need to find
new channels. And a mistake I made as a
first-time VP of marketing was
>> almost being so overindexed on like
what's working right now and not having
enough plans for the future and having
enough space that things might fail, but
I got to plant some seeds that you know
when we're ready to turn up the dial on
this channel, we can do it.
>> Yeah. balancing the long-term and the
short term is always really difficult as
you as you know. Um I think if something
is working and you can find more scale
with it, you do not want to slow down on
that. That's first things first, right?
But to your point, you've always got to
have the next thing lined up. So when
I'm if let's say I'm I'm looking at this
from a channel perspective, I'm looking
at what is the ceiling for this channel
and like how do we get there and how
fast can we get there? So is it if we
10x our content, we will 10x our
pipeline. Well, let's do that. Like,
does the math make sense? Then let's do
it, right? And so for the podcast
example, the constraint is I don't know
how many of these episodes does your
audience want to listen to, right? That
might be a constraint. Um, very often
it's not production. And in theory, you
could produce as much as you wanted. So,
you have your audience appetite for
consumption. Um, you have paid budgets,
whatever it might be.
>> Anything that didn't work that you can
share? I always like to say there's
things that haven't worked yet because
to your point, right, it's the timing.
It's all those combinations of things.
I've had things that haven't worked and
we've tried them again and it and it did
work. So, as an example, uh when I was
leading our growth team on the
participant side of things, we wanted to
get a referral program going, right?
We're like, this is going to make a lot
of sense. Uh we'll, you know, do an
incentivized referral. We'll pay the
participants to refer other
participants. This is a no-brainer.
First version did not work. If we had
quit there, we would have lost what is
now one of our biggest growth channels
on the participant side. And I think
that's a big lesson, too, is knowing
when to quit and knowing when to try
again.
>> Yeah. It's like, can you can you go long
enough until you hit that in inflection
point, right? It's like I've been doing
the same I got I got injured a couple
months ago and I've been trying to work
my way back and I've been doing the same
workout for two and a half months and
literally just now I'm starting to feel
like man I'm noticing like a huge
difference and a month ago I was really
bored and ready to change something up
and I I think that's a weakness of mine
in all aspects of life is like how do
you balance the
>> you know the patience because you're
like well let's kill this the team is
busy everyone's stressed out they got we
got 15 other priorities it's It's hard
to know sometimes what what's worth
continuing to invest in.
>> It is very hard. It's always very clear
in hindsight, but I think it's, you
know, just having a hypothesis of why
isn't this working? You know, did we did
we really think through if this channel
makes sense for us? And there's a lot
of, you know, things you can think
through there. But I'll tell you, for
example, one that hasn't worked for us
yet is influencer. We haven't quite
figured that out, right? Is it because
we don't have influencers with a large
enough audience? Is it because we
haven't armed them with the right offer?
You know, is it a tactical question or
is it a structural question? But I would
say I have faith in this one. I think
this one's going to work for us, but it
it has not worked yet. So, we're not
going to drop everything else we're
doing that is working to put everything
behind figuring that out. Um, but my my
gut sense is that that's one that can
work for us.
>> What about any lessons as far as like
structuring your your team? You've had a
team of uh 16 people. Obviously that you
know will fluctuates over time and
things change, but how do you what's
your what's your kind of operating
system for for running marketing? Do you
have any particular routines and rhythms
that you like certain cadences around
campaigns or planning or week to week
running the team?
>> I do. I love an operating rhythm and
that's something that you know we're
always uh tweaking over time. But uh we
pretty much run things on a quarterly
cadence. uh you know, one of the content
types, if you will, that has been very
uh instrumental in our success is we
call them bangers. Some people would
call them a tent pole. Uh whatever.
>> I like bangers. Bangers is nice.
>> Bangers are banging, you know.
>> And so we really orient a lot of our
calendar around these bangers. And so
we'll have two to three bangers a
quarter. In the past, you know, we've
tried to structure them around a theme.
Um, but
>> sorry. And is it is it a piece of is it
a content? Is it like an article?
>> Yeah. So there's a mix of top off
ofunnel and bottom ofunnel bangers,
right? And so what they are is they're
really our major launches of the
quarter.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah. And um you know so we talk about
stacking these different channels,
right? And we started with this kind of
very pragmatic SEO driven field guide.
The next thing we added was these
bangers, which we didn't call them that
at the time, but it was even back then
eight years ago. I knew doing a bunch
of, you know, keyword driven meto blog
posts was not going to be the secret to
our success. So, it was how do we take
these pain points, right, these
motivations that we know our heroes,
these researchers have and do something
meaningful with that, do something
unique with that. And so, our first true
banger was our UX research tools map.
And now we do this every year. And the
general idea there was
um you know the loom escapes I'm sure
you know the the marketing tech stack
and you've got your zillion logos and
the sort of point of it is like oh my
god there's so many logos right uh so
the idea was let's do that but for UX
research but let's actually make it
visually kind of beautiful and
interesting to look at and my big thing
as a marketer was I don't know about you
Dave but I always was irritated with the
box I ended up in like with what what my
company was in when I'd done Martekch.
It's like that's the wrong box. Stop
putting me in the wrong box.
>> Of course.
>> And so I had this idea of like not only
am I in the wrong box, but I should be
in four boxes, you know? I want I want
to be in as many boxes as possible.
>> Well, the worst is when you get the it's
forwarded to you from the CEO. And it's
like, why are we not in
>> Yeah, exactly. You're like, I don't
know. I didn't pay enough to the analyst
relations. Um.
>> Right. And so I took all my personal pet
peeves and got to make my own.
>> I I love the I love the concept of
banger. So So a couple things just
talking to our listeners for a second.
Like I think
>> it's a perfect example of just kind of
like making up the rules. Like there's
no there's no school that you would have
went to that's like and once a quarter
you're going to do a banger and a a
banger and and um but I love this
because I think I like to think about
this like operating cadence for for
marketing. I think so much of the
success of a marketing team whether we
want to admit it or not like you know
what really matters like the pro product
engineering the roadmap like what do I
got it's like what ingredients do I have
from the company
>> y
>> and a lot of times you you don't you
might not have a big product like of
course marketing is easy when like
product ships a banger and then you're
like okay cool we have a big launch
we're going to do like that's a lot of
work and it's stressful
>> but it that makes marketing pretty easy
it's like when we don't have all those
things like what the hell are we going
to talk about? And so I like what you
have, which is like I'm going to go map
out, okay, I know that I got a road map
from the head of product. I know what
the next kind of six months are going to
look like. We got this in April. We got
this thing in June, but I don't have
anything in May. Oh, that's a great
month to do our banger. Like, let's
let's get the UX research tool report
lined up to now we have to now we do
that over time and we have this steady
drum beat of of stuff for marketing. I
also think it's really healthy to have
like a forcing function. Um, when I was
at Drift, we called them marketable
moments. And it was like, we are going
to do a product launch the first Tuesday
of every month, no matter what. I don't
know what the one three months from now
is, but like, I know we're going to do
it. And it just was a great discipline
to get on. And I believe that like
marketing creates momentum for the rest
of the company. Do you feel anything I
just kind of riffed on there?
>> No, 100%. And the marketable moments,
I've heard you talk about those and very
much, you know, the similar idea here. I
think there's so much not in our control
as marketing teams. The market always
wins, right? This has been a a huge
learning for me. But there's a lot in
our control. And that's what you have to
optimize for. And that's what this is is
like we can control putting something
totally awesome and unique and
differentiated that our audience is
going to love and we can do it at the
cadence that we set. And that's
>> how you come up
>> how would you come up with bangers? like
it was like a me it was a creative
process like anybody could pitch ideas
for bangers. How do we come up with
them?
>> Yeah, we have quarterly planning
processes and over time some of these
became recurring once a year things. So
those go on the calendar but then you
>> right that that's like the ultimate
thing, right? If you like you you hit a
home run with the UX research tool and
now you're like oh let's plug this in
and like let's do this every every year.
I worked at uh Constant Contact back in
the day and they did this like
>> small business they did like this survey
every year and it was like this massive
thing for them. It worked so hey let's
do it. Every May we're going to run the
UX research tools report.
>> Yep. Exactly. And so we do a state of
user research state of, you know, lots
of people do state ofs. We used our own
technology to do it. We, you know, it
was all about just doing it better,
right? Like having a great experience,
having a big sample size, really getting
into the weeds of the data, pulling out
insights that are actually interesting
to people. So doing it, but kicking it
up a notch. That was our approach to
that one. And it is again, there was a
gap. No one was doing it. If someone
were doing it, we would have done
something else.
>> Okay. So, you're you're doing quarterly
planning. You're you're planning out the
bangers. How do you figure out like what
should what should be in it? Like, and
maybe let's think about today. If you
were doing this today, how do you decide
is it an article? Is it a blog post? Is
it an email? Are we doing a webinar? Is
there a press release? Are we doing
event? How do you figure out all the
pieces around it?
>> Yeah. So, uh what what did people used
to say is like content is king and
distribution is queen. I you know I
think something that we've really really
leaned into is a channel first approach.
Meaning we're not building our content
calendar until we have a strong sense of
what our channels are and what they can
do for us. So we start from the channel
and then we fit in our calendar. So
doing it today it's where's our pipeline
going to come from? What channels do we
need to be active in? And where are
these bangers going to get distributed?
And for us right now that is absolutely
social media, right? LinkedIn is killing
it for us despite all the challenges
with the LinkedIn algorithm and
everything else.
>> Let's let's let's just double click on
that. What what does that where what are
you posting on LinkedIn? Is it from the
company page, personal pages? Can we can
you explain some of the strategy when
you say LinkedIn is working?
>> Yeah, 100%. So it's it's all of those
things together. So we have our founders
doing founderled. Uh we have employee
advocacy and I'll talk about how that
fits in with the bangers. Uh so we do
something called PG Palooa. This is part
of our quarterly operating rhythm and
what we do is we get the entire company
involved in basically amplifying these
bangers throughout the entire funnel. So
everyone in the company is encouraged to
participate in sharing this stuff on
social. There is a paid incentivized
contest for whoever gets the most shares
on this stuff, right? Um we do that for
a week or so. Um, and then
>> what do what do you get if you win that?
How do you incentivize that?
>> Cash.
>> Oh, that's why it works.
>> Yeah, exactly. Right.
>> Exactly. C called her cash. Um, so we do
that. And then on the sales side of
things, and we've tweaked this over time
about a week or two weeks later, they're
going to follow up with everyone we
could see that engaged with that content
with those bangers,
and then they're going to reach out and
try to try to book a meeting and and
make a call. So, and they get
incentivized for booking those meetings
as well. So, that kind of two-phase, one
two punch has been a great way to get
the whole company involved and turning
these bangers into actual pipeline.
>> Do you tell people what to write or is
it like here's a link, here's a link
that the banger is coming out on
Tuesday. Write whatever you want about
it and we'll see who gets the most.
>> Yeah. Yes. And yes, yes and yes. We
always give them some starter copy,
right? links and images and you know the
all the resources they need but very
much encouraged to to make it your own.
>> Okay, what else? This that was great. I
love the topic of bangers and having an
oper operating system. What what else is
kind of key to your marketing success?
>> So there's two kinds of bangers. There's
the top ofunnel bangers that are really
100% in our control and then there's the
bottom ofunnel bangers also known as a
product launch and those are less in our
control. And we have certainly taken the
step of we said we were going to launch
this on March 15th and we do it come
hell or high water. We've also taken the
step of this would really be better if
we did it in a couple weeks once we
actually have the product. Um so we've
done that both ways but they're always
on the calendar but the reality is we
have to be a little bit more flexible
and those are a little bit less in in
our control which is why we love our top
of funnel bangers. But we give those the
same treatment. We give those the PG
palooa treatment. And so you put all
that together and you've got a kind of
all hands on deck, full company,
fullfunnel social media explosion
happening. So that's an important part
of our operating rhythm.
>> What would you say to someone who is
struggling to who likes this idea but is
struggling to maybe get their whole
company on board and and wants wants
multiple people to post? Uh be beyond
the founders like I think you've tapped
into something where you have employees
and you're incentivizing them. How do
you how would you how would you get over
that hump?
>> Start small. Um I think with when you're
trying to make a new thing happen, get a
get a band of believers together, right,
to workshop how you're going to do this
with and get them on board and get them
excited and telling other people to
participate. I really do think that cash
is helpful here. Uh it's motivating even
if it's not a lot of cash. And you got
to have a great idea. I think that um
the user interviews crew has taken a lot
of pride in the bangers we've put out
there because they're really good and
people want to share them whether they
be in sales or some other team they're
excited and proud to share that stuff
and they know that people you know their
customers their prospects that they're
sharing it with are going to like it so
it reflect
>> it's a good it's you're not asking
everyone to like I think the cringy
thing or the people that don't like
doing is like when you ask the whole
company to promote ote something that's
kind of like uh I don't want to I don't
promote this webinar or like I know we
we won some award like I don't want to
post that.
>> I'm so excited to share that da da da
da. No you aren't.
>> Exactly. But like you created something
like hey we published like the
definitive guide to like UX research
tools. This is genuinely helpful to
people in our ICP. Right.
>> That's right. That's right.
>> I like all the versions of the bangers.
Tofu bangers.
>> Tofu bangers. Bofu bangers. Bofu
bangers. That's like Doug's new band,
right? Tofu.
>> Um, tell me about your podcast. You've
done You've been podcasting for a long
time. 175 episodes.
>> Yeah.
>> Why Why do a podcast? Everyone's got a
podcast. How do you measure the ROI on a
podcast?
>> Seven years ago, everyone did not have a
podcast. And that is very much part of
why we did started the podcast. So, it
was that same approach of where's the
gaps?
>> So, I did some desk research. I talked
to some researchers. Do you listen to
podcasts? again, like we're not going to
start a podcast if they're not listening
to podcasts. That's that's a big hurdle
to be like, "Hey guys, you should listen
to this new media that you don't
naturally want to do otherwise." Um, but
they did listen to podcasts. There were
a couple of podcasts around that some of
them had posted once a month. You know,
they're not posting regularly. They're
not dominating the conversation. We've
gotten in. Let's try it out. And I did
not ask for permission to do this. I uh
learned Garage Band. Like it was hacky.
>> Me too.
>> Yeah, it was very very hacky in the
beginning, which of course is like the
most fun.
>> Um so we we just did it. We did it on
Anchor, which is now owned by Spotify.
Got a couple of guests. I think Maggie
Crowley, you know, back in the day was
one of our first 10 guests probably.
Um, and I will say that researchers have
been the easiest, most fun audience to
market to. I've ever worked with, which
is a lot of why I've been here for so
long. They have been very willing
participants in our marketing. It has
never been hard to get researchers to be
podcast guests. They're very invested in
um the craft and, you know, giving back
to the community and all of that. So, it
wasn't hard to get guests. Once we
learned Garage Band, it wasn't hard to
produce the thing. Yeah.
>> And people were listening to it like
right away. I couldn't believe it. Um,
and so it just felt
>> this is fun for us. We're getting good
feedback from researchers. People are
listening to it. Let's just do this for
a while and see where it goes. Um, one
of the curses and benefits of podcasts
is the attribution, but we knew that up
front. We knew we were not going to be
able to tell a super clear ROI story.
And fortunately, I work with founders uh
who are okay with that. And that was
very helpful.
>> I think you got into it for the right
reasons. I think when it if you get into
if you're like, we're going to we we
need 10 incremental sales meetings this
month and so therefore we're going to
start a podcast. Then it's like, well,
how are we going to measure it? But the
fact that maybe because
>> the head of marketing kind of like
>> skunk works, like she's got GarageBand
on her laptop, she's doing the editing.
like we're just going to we're just
going to try this thing and it works.
And I think so many people that I've
talked to you learn the value of a
podcast like months in or like all the
you know you're doing it and then one
day you just get like a DM from someone
like damn I didn't know she listened to
that podcast like that's crazy. Did you
know the CMO of Salesforce like the
messages I've gotten over the years from
having this podcast? I'm like wait what?
You listen to my little podcast? Like
>> I know it's you know and at first it was
just like then you saw the charts going
up. Okay, somebody's downloading it. I
don't know who, but somebody. They live
in the United States. That's great.
That's where we do most of our business.
Um, they're probably into research cuz
why the hell else would you listen to a
user research podcast, right? Um,
>> did did you look at did you think about
the like the return of it as
fueling some other part of your content
machine too, like beyond just like the
the actual episode?
>> Yeah, for sure. But I I was going to
say, you know, I had the same experience
as you Dave where when I really got it
was after co when we started doing a lot
of events again and I would go to these
events and people would come up to me
like I was a celebrity because I host
this podcast and I swear to God this is
not why I got into this at all. But it
was like wow like people who I really
respect who are very important in this
industry are actually listening to this
thing. That's all the attribution I
really need here. Um, but yes,
>> well, it's like different. It's
different than like if I just got your
email. If I just got your emails, I'm
like, "Oh, that's not really Erin.
That's just like the, you know,
marketing automation system at our
company." But
>> someone that's actually listening to you
for hours and hours and hours that
builds up
>> relationship. Yeah,
>> for sure. Like if we could measure
>> It's like if you could measure marketing
by like time spent on a channel.
>> Yes.
>> And that we were able to weight that
somehow and we knew who everyone
everyone was that was listening, it
would be insane.
>> Yes. Yeah. I think the depth of the
connection as you know it's you can't
see that in an attribution dashboard but
you meet
>> what's the state of the are you still
doing the podcast today
>> we are we are I'm hosting one next week
we had Ben was stepping in for a while
but I'm I'm back I'm back to being our
lead host so still going yes it fuels to
your question it fuels our our LinkedIn
and and many of our other channels and
what those channels are and what we do
with the podcast has changed a lot over
time as those channels have developed.
Let's wrap up and tell me about your
feelings about I'm going to ask you a
very simple question and I'm going to
let you take it wherever you want. What
What is your feelings about AI and
marketing?
>> Oh, I thought you were going to ask me
about brand and demand. People tell you
about that, too. Um, my feelings about
AI and marketing, I think I agree with,
you know, there's a lot of just sort of
consensus thinking that I actually agree
with, right, which is that AI isn't
going to take your job. The person who
learns AI will. I agree with that. I
don't, you know, think that's
particularly unique, but I think that's
probably true. Um, I think that part of
why I love tech marketing, in
particular, UXR marketing is this
intersection of technology and humanity,
of the tech and the people. And for
someone like me, this is very exciting
because the technology has never been
more powerful, better, and more in need
of humanity, right? Like we've all
experienced the AI slop. Nothing new,
guys. Like marketing slop has been
around for a long time. It's just faster
and worse and higher scale now. So I
think back to those fundamentals, those
are all still true of knowing your
audience. Now we have AI to do that even
better, even faster. Use it, but don't
create AI slop with it. So I think it's
an amazing opportunity uh that I am
super pumped about. Do you have
expectations like within your team about
how people are using AI? Do you expect
them to be using these tools?
>> Yeah, they need to be. And I think I've
tried to um be supportive and somewhat
patient and do it in phases. So last
year was the year of you got to be using
this stuff. I'm going to meet you where
you are. Um we're going to enable you.
We're going to, you know, give you
budget, give you L & D time. We're going
to do showand tells. We're going to do
hackathons. all this stuff to to help
everyone start from where you are and
end up somewhere sort of more AI mature.
That was our approach last year. This
year it's like let's go faster.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, now it's like you just really
don't have any excuse because now I I
have such FOMO like I'm think of myself
as like I'm an early adopter and all
this stuff but man I I'm sure you feel I
open up like LinkedIn or I go to YouTube
I'm like I'm not doing anything. I'm not
scratching the surface of AI, but I
think the the part that there's no
excuse on is like most of the time I'm
literally like if I'm using Claude as an
example, I'm asking Claude how to better
use Claude. Like the AI can help tell
you. So like I that's hey, I want to I
want to try to create this deck. I'm
speaking at an event next week and I
want to try to create this deck like you
know without having to do Google Slides.
How would you do it?
>> Yeah. And and if you're a smart person
with some experience, which I think you
and I both are, you can be like you can
be like, "Claude,
>> wrong." You know, that's terrible
advice.
>> Actually, I shared this with my team
yesterday because I think it's real.
Like I've been, you know, annoyingly
pushing AI like we should be doing this,
we should be doing this, we should be
doing this. And I, you know, I spent, no
joke, I spent an hour gathering all the
material. I was like, I'm going to write
my deck with Claude. And I know there's
a bunch of AI apps that people love to
make slides and it just didn't it didn't
work for me. It did not work for me
because of my the process of like how I
write and how I talk and how I want to
deliver that on stage. I use a lot of
like there's kind of a slide that might
have like one word and a picture of my
daughter on it or something. And it's
like how would how would how do I teach
that's my transition. So I just was like
you know what I got to I'm going to use
Claude to maybe do some research and get
some data and get some points here. But
I I actually I've been spending the last
few days building this myself and I
think it's a perfect example that that's
not something that is can be outsourced.
It's like outsourcing stand up. Hey,
hey, you're a stand-up comedian. Like
have AI like write your whole talk and
it's not going to be the same.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
>> Uh you you want to talk about branded
demand. So
>> yeah, I just was anticipating what you
might ask me.
>> Oh, well tell me what's your opinion on
it. Go ahead. You have you have a couple
minutes. Say shoot your shot.
>> Well, I just think the whole argument is
stupid. I think that like brand and
demand are both very important. It's a
funnel, guys, you know, and and like we
were talking about earlier, I think, you
know, this idea that 10% is the right
amount to spend on brand or 20 or what.
It's stupid because
>> like it like it could be quantified to
be like, no, said we need to spend this
amount.
>> What do you even mean by that first of
all, right? Like is that a brand channel
or a demand channel? Like, and how do
you determine?
>> Well, they both feed each other. It's
like
>> feed each other. It's it's just so
silly. And so that's my
>> But why what do you think the silly do
you think the silliness comes from like
internal like CFO CEO marketing not
being able to like articulate the the
ROI of a of a billboard or of a podcast?
Like what what's the where does it come
from?
>> It's a very good question. I think
that's probably you know I think the
what the post zer was very ROI heavy and
you know created a lot of these kinds of
conversations but I think we just want
to be very is it this or is it this?
It's like it's both. It's both. Yeah,
>> it's both.
>> Well, it's like I I actually I would use
the the the to your point about the Zer
thing. Like I would use um the example
of like Zoom as an example during like
COVID. I was like, do you think do you
think selling is easier for the sales
team when everyone in the world is using
Zoom and everyone is talking about Zoom?
Like of course that is that is brand,
>> right?
>> And I'm even thinking like the little
sandwich shop down the street. Like if
they make a better sandwich and people
like it and the food's really good, that
builds brand which then helps create
demand. like there it is all
interconnected. when we everything
breaks down when we have to try to like
justify the spend and like yeah we're
25% of our budget is going to go to
brand but like
sending shitty outbound emails also like
hurts your brand you know like
>> yeah no exactly exactly so I don't know
I think it came from like it's the what
do they say if you're explaining you're
losing I think it was just marketers
found themselves in this really um
difficult position and I think that's
where a lot of it came from but brand is
very important I'll I'll say that.
>> Yeah, that that topic does come up all
the time though. It's like how do I hit
the sales goal this quarter while also
building a brand for the future?
>> Got to do that.
>> Okay. Anything else? Anything I should
have asked you? What's the question? If
you're a podcast host, what should I
have asked you that I didn't ask you?
>> Nothing. You asked me good stuff. Is
there anything we didn't cover? You
know, we didn't get into the the
researchers and how we reached them.
I'll just say quickly. I think that
>> Sure. The um
I think the thing that we have done this
entire eight years in making researchers
our heroes and our core audience is we
have consistently told them that they
matter that research matters that the
work that they do matters and that
humans matter to research so what we do
matters and I think
you know it's the the particular topics
that are top of mind will change and
that's what keeps it fun and exciting
the channels change. That's fun and
exciting. But how you reach an audience
doesn't change and that's been very fun
for me to get the experience to to do
that for such a long period of time in
all these different ways.
>> Well, let me I'll I'll jump I'll take
your thing and just kind of like raise
it up. So, obviously like Aaron is the
CMO of a company that sells to
researchers, right?
The thing you said though is like that
the real thing is you you're the whole
the center of your marketing strategy is
making your customer the hero.
>> And so everything you're doing is trying
to like elevate them, elevate their
profession, like create things they care
about. Like that that's the secret. So
someone could take I'm trying to come up
with like what's the takeaway that
someone could apply to any industry.
>> You sell to HR, finance, accounting,
research. It's like
>> you made them the star. you made them
the start and you tell them that they
matter and that you care about them. And
you know, I think that there has been a
move to make B2B marketing more
exciting, more consumer-like in some
ways over the years, but at the end of
the day, we're all people with emotions
and we want to feel connected to
something. And uh work is emotional for
people. And so I think if you can
convince them and actually mean it that
you care about them and have their back,
I think that will take you pretty far.
>> Yeah, we put a lot of stock into like
what our what our job is like. It's just
everybody has told me it's a very
American thing when I use this line at
an event, but like
>> I'm a marketer like that m like hey you
meet someone out I go meet a kid's
friend and they're like oh what do you
do for work? It's like the first
question out of their mouth.
>> Yeah. Yeah, 40 hours a week, you know,
plus
>> 40. What are you talking about? I work I
work
>> starting point
>> 996 40. That's like half time. No, this
is great. Um, okay. Aaron made, thank
you for coming on the podcast. Go find
Aarin on LinkedIn. Obviously, you
probably all follow her. How many Let me
I'm going to look you up real quick. I
don't even know. Let's see.
>> I don't even know. Tell me.
>> She has 7, I'm going to mark this time
stamp this 7,776 followers for now.
four. Now,
>> you will at least have 7,770.
That's four more by the time cuz I'm
going to make everybody on the team go
follow you.
>> Okay, great.
>> But this is awesome. Send her a message.
Tell her that you heard her on this
podcast and that uh you related to what
what she's saying and and go follow her
on LinkedIn because you need more good
people who are actually out there doing
the work to follow. Erin, good to see
you.
>> You, too.
>> Thanks for coming and hanging out. I
appreciate you.
>> Yeah. Thanks, Dave.